---
layout: internal
title: "5.1- Vocabulary in code quickstart"
permalink: implement/apps/vocabularies/5-1-quickstart-artifacts
---

In this part of the tutorial, we will build on the [quickstart version](https://solid.github.io/assets/misc/tutorials/quickstart-obelisk.ttl) of the Obelisk vocabulary to develop a simple javascript application that answers the question: "Is this person an obelisk sculptor ?"

## The artifact generator

The last thing that we want is to memorize and type IRIs all over our code. That's why some libraries, such as `rdf-namespaces`, define constants to give access to reference vocabularies:
```javascript
import { rdf } from 'rdf-namespaces';

// The value of iri will be http://www.w3.org/1999/02/22-rdf-syntax-ns#type
const iri = rdf.type;
```
However, an issue with these libraries is that, by nature, they are limited to reference vocabularies. What about your specific vocabulary, dedicated to your app? How to make it easily reusable in your code?

You can use the [LIT artifact generator](TBD). This piece of software takes a vocabulary in, and spits out a nice code artifact that you can reuse in your application. Let's see how this works.

### Generate the artifact

To generate a javascript artifact with the default options, you can use the following command:
- `lit-artifact-generator -i https://solid.github.io/assets/misc/tutorials/quickstart-obelisk.ttl -o /path/to/a/directory --np`.

You can use a local file rather than an IRI if your vocabulary is not online yet.

### Use the artifact

In your application (TODO: provide git repo with demo app), you can then use your vocabulary directly:
```javascript
const OBELISK = require("/path/to/generated/artifact/OBELISK")

// The value of sculptorIri will be http://w3id.org/obelisk/ns/Sculptor
const sculptorIri = OBELISK.Sculptor.value;
// The value of sculptorDefaultLabel will be Sculptor
const sculptorDefaultLabel = OBELISK.Sculptor.labelInLang()
```
If you use an IDE, at this point you have auto-completion on all the terms of your vocabulary.

From there, we can build a simple app that tells you, based on the webid, if a person is an obelisk sculptor or not. Note that the generated artifact is:
- imported on line 1,
- used on line 5 to get an IRI (`OBELISK.Sculptor.value`),
- used on line 10 to get a label (`OBELISK.Sculptor.labelInLang()`).

<iframe src="https://codesandbox.io/embed/lit-using-generated-artifact-8vfyf?fontsize=14" title="lit-using-generated-artifact" allow="geolocation; microphone; camera; midi; vr; accelerometer; gyroscope; payment; ambient-light-sensor; encrypted-media; usb" style="width:100%; height:500px; border:0; border-radius: 4px; overflow:hidden;" sandbox="allow-modals allow-forms allow-popups allow-scripts allow-same-origin"></iframe>

If you want to be recognised as an obelisk sculptor, you can go and manually edit your profile by changing the default ':me a schem:Person, n0:Person;' into ':me a schem:Person, n0:Person, <http://w3id.org/obelisk/ns/Sculptor>;' (you can of course use prefixes if you prefer).
