---
layout: post
title: "01- Core vocabularies for linked data"
tags: [linked-data, vocabularies]
categories: [Build on Solid, Vocabularies]
permalink: Build-on-Solid/vocabularies/02-01-core-vocabularies
exclude: true
---

The following vocabularies are essential, because they describe... vocabularies. Let's get meta for a moment.

# <a id='rdf'/> RDF

## Prefix and namespace
- rdf: http://www.w3.org/1999/02/22-rdf-syntax-ns#

## Description

RDF and RDFS are the foundation on which all other vocabularies are built. They enable the description of a graph of [resources](rdfs:Resource), each identified by an IRI.

RDF graphs are based on the notion of [statement](rdf:Statement): a statement can be compared to a very simple sentence <subject, verb, complement>, e.g. `Charlie is a Person`. In the RDF terminology, we say that a [statement](rdf:Statement) has an [subject](rdf:subject) (the resource the statement is about), a [property](rdf:property) (the verb of the sentence, defining a characteristic of the subject) and an [object](rdf:object) (the value for the property for the subject). Therefore, the sentence `Charlie is a Person` could be expressed in RDF as `ex:Charlie rdf:type ex:Person`, where `<http://example.org/ns#Charlie>` is the subject, `rdf:type` the property, and `<http://example.org/ns#Person>` the object. Subject and object are necessarily individuals identified with an IRI, while the object is either an individual with an IRI, or a literal with a value (e.g. string or int).

## Main concepts

- Typing a Resource: `<resource IRI> rdf:type <type IRI>`, where the type is a [class](rdfs:Class)

# <a id='rdfs'/> RDFS

## Prefix and namespace
- rdfs: http://www.w3.org/2000/01/rdf-schema#

## Description

RDFS enables to build hierarchies of concepts by introducing the notion of [class](rdfs:Class), and the [subClassOf](rdfs:subClassOf) property. Similarly, [properties](rdf:Property) can be organized hierarchically by using the [subPropertyOf](rdfs:subPropertyOf) property. RDFS also enables describing the types that can be attached to [resources](rdfs:Resource) when they are associated with a [property](rdf:Property) by specifying the property's [domain](rdfs:domain) (the type of its subject) and [range](rdfs:range) (the type of the object). For instance, let's imagine `ex:hasAuthor`, a property expressing the fact that someone is the author of a book. If we state that `ex:hasAuthor rdfs:domain ex:Book` and that `ex:hasAuthor rdfs:range ex:Person`, effectively what we say is that anytime we find a statement such as `ex:aBook ex:hasAuthor ex:someone`, we know that `ex:aBook` is of type `ex:Book`, and that `ex:someone` is a `ex:Person`

## Main concepts

- Subclassing: `<subclass IRI> rdfs:subClassOf <class IRI>`
- Specifying a property's domain: `<property IRI> rdfs:domain <type IRI>`
- Specifying a property's range: `<property IRI> rdfs:range <type IRI>`
- Adding a human-readable name to a concept identified by an IRI: `<IRI> rdfs:label "Some name"`
- Adding a longer comment describing a concept: `<IRI> rdfs:comment "Some comment"`
- Redirecting to another information source: `<IRI> rdfs:seeAlso <IRI>`

# <a id='owl'/> OWL
